Welcome to the next section of our course.
And in this section we are going to talk about how we can start building model Context Protocol server,
otherwise called as the MCP server within our code.
So what is Model Context protocol and what is MCP server in first place?
We already discussed about MCP server briefly in our earlier sections of the course, like how we can
invoke the MCP server as an agent, which can act like an bridge between your large language model and
your local systems.
That's exactly what is MCP.
So basically, MCP is an open protocol that standardizes how application provides context to the large
language model.
Think of MCP is like an a USB-C port for an AI application.
Just as an a USB-C port provides a standardized way to connect your devices to various peripherals and
accessories, MCP provides a standardized way to connect AI models to different data sources and Toolings,
and MCP enables you to build agents and complex workflows on the top of LMS and connect your models
with the world.
While they say with the world, it's like everything.
So MCP, you can just think of that, like you can connect with whatever that you wanted to using the
power of this open protocol.
And LM gets access to almost everything, like how we did in our earlier sections of the course, using
like long chain, like how we're able to connect with multiple different sources of our data.
That's exactly what we're going to be doing in this particular MCP as well.
So MCP follows a client server architecture where an MCP host an application like cloud code or cloud
Desktop, or even cursor IDE or Visual Studio Code, GitHub Copilot or windsurf, whatever that you
name it, any supported IDE or any supported systems which supports MCP Can act as an MCP host, which
establishes connections to one or more MCP servers.
So you don't have to just rely on only one MCP server.
You can have multiple different MCP server while working with it, and the MCP host accomplishes this
by creating one MCP client for each MCP server.
And each MCP client maintains a dedicated one on one connection with its corresponding MCP server.
That's how it really works over here.
You see that how the connectivity happens with MCP host with multiple different clients, and once they
are connected, they can just talk with each other.
That's how they really work.
That's the MCP server architecture.
And we already discussed about the same thing even before in our earlier sections, like how MCP really
works.
So MCP has introduce act like a universal bridge.
It has a client and server architecture.
So in here the cloud desktop is the MCP server.
And we're going to connect with multiple different local systems using the MCP servers via the MCP protocols,
so there can be an MCP server which can access your local machines or GitHub so you can have one server
or something like that.
You can also have a server which is going to be connecting with your file systems.
You can also have a MCP server which is going to connect with your Slack or Google Drive.
Or you can also have a MCP server, which is going to act as an automation testing tools like playwright
for that matter.
Or so that's how this MCP server is going to really work.
And that's the client server architecture in place.
So we are going to build an MCP server in this particular course in this particular session, to be
honest.
So how are we actually going to do that.
There are two ways to do it.
One is official MCP server library, which is going to be for JavaScript and Python and C, something
like that.
And there is a fast MCP 2.0 which is very, very specific to Python.
And we are going to be focusing on fast MCP 2.0 because we know that the python is our language of choice
and we are going to build everything with fast MCP 2.0 approach, which is really, really fast.
And I'm telling you, the way that you build this MCP server over here with the other toolings that
we have built in earlier in our long chain approach by just noting, like add tools, pretty much same
approach that we're going to be doing over here as well in the MCP to create an MCP server.
This is really good.
The fast MCP is really awesome.
If you're going to be using the node version of MCP, you know how hard it is because I already built
myself the playwright MCP server as well as the database MCP server using the node.
It is really, really terrible because the code starts becoming very, very complex in due course of
time.
But if you're going to be using this fast MCP 2.0, it's really going to be amazing.
So fast.
MCP makes building MCP server and client simple and intuitive.
It creates tools, exposes resources, defines prompts and more with clear pythonic code and fast.
Mcpp is a standard framework for working with MCPs, which is Model Context, protocol and fast.
MCP 1.0 was incorporated into the official MCP Python SDK in 2024, so it is already an official integration
happen over there.
So it's just going to work with the uh with the official MCP Python SDK already so fast.
MCP is is pretty good.
They have already seen the benefits.
So the model context protocol library or SDK has already incorporated fast MCP in there.
So that's what we are going to be using in as well.
So how the code is really going to look like.
Well, I keep telling that the MCP coding is really really easier if you have already watched all the
sections before, if you have already tried out everything so far that we have discussed, you should
see the code looks very, very simple.
All we have to do while using this fast MCP server is to follow these steps over here.
So first of all, in the past MCP server we need to create a basic server.
So this is going to be the server which is going to act like a bridge to talk with your desktop which
is the cloud desktop or the Ides like the GitHub copilot agent or the cursor IDE or windsurf.
So you need to talk your your client needs to talk with the servers.
That's why you need to have a server.
That is the first thing that you need to create.
And then you need to have all the toolings pretty much like how we did in our lab earlier.
So that's what we'll be doing over here.
And then we'll be exposing the data with resources.
So this is something we really require because that's what the, uh, the large language model really
requires by then.
And then you're going to generate the dynamic content with a resource template.
So this is something more advanced.
We are not going to touch about the resource template and things over here.
But but yeah that's what you have to doing.
And then finally you need to run the server.
So once you have everything over here like everything's been wired up into the server.
Then just have to run the server, that's all.
That's how you need to start the MCP server.
It's really, really easier.
I've just I'm just going to use a one, two and three and five.
Not even the four.
Um but it's going to be very straightforward.
And the code if you I'm going to show you the code now.
You just mind blown how easy it is.
So this is the code.
To be honest, this is a simple calculator program like how we built even earlier in our sections to
add numbers, subtract the number.
This is the same code I just copy pasted from there and I've just built it.
See I'm just importing the MCP server dot MCP uh over here.
And then I'm creating a server.
This is the way that you create a simple calculator.
Uh, MCP server, that's all.
Once you create it, you add all the toolings.
I'm not even adding any resources here because it doesn't really require for this particular, uh,
MCP server and then running the server.
So that's all.
Once you do that, you have an MCP server.
You can now run this MCP server right away.
You can wire this up with your cloud desktop and we can quickly see how this works.
This is amazing.
I will quickly show you all of these in this particular section, but in the next lecture we're going
to see how we can start installing everything.
And for the first time in this particular course, we're going to be deviating from using our existing
code repository that we have been building in Visual Studio Code so far into a new project.
So I'm going to create a new project.
I don't want to mix them up in the same project.
I'm going to be creating a new folder structures everything so that I can just start everything from
the scratch, and I can show you how the MVP servers can be built.
And again, MVP server cannot be always matched with the long chain that we have built because long
chain is even more powerful.
But if you want to create a quick solution, uh, like an agent which can talk with a large language
model and all the capabilities, MVP server is really, really helpful and it's very fast to build it.
That's the reason why I have added this particular section as well.